README.md, before:

# README

The `pseudonymisation_service` project is a Rails API-only application that allows demographics to be submitted, and pseudonymised versions to be returned.

## Usage

The easiest way to use the pseudonymisation service is through a `NdrPseudonymise::Client` object,
provided by the `ndr_pseudonymise` gem. This provides Ruby access to the two endpoints (described below, in "Endpoints").

## Basic Table Structure

Users can use pseudonymisation keys when a key grant has been given,
and any usage is then logged.

```
+------+      +----------+      +---------------------+
| User | ---> | KeyGrant | <--- | PseudonymisationKey |
+------+      +----------+      +---------------------+
     |                            |
     |        +----------+        |
     +------> | UsageLog | <------+
              +----------+
```

## Secrets Management

This project uses Rails' per-environment credentials API. Stored using are:
* pseudonymisation key secret salts
* per-environment demographic-logging encryption keys
* database credentials

For testing, the test environment credentials file and key file have been committed,
and can be viewed/updated using:

```
$ rails credentials:edit --environment test
```

## Authentication

Users are authenticated with tokens supplied in the request headers.
To set up a user, run:

```
$ rails users:create
```

A token can be (re)generated for a user using:

```
$ rails users:generate_token[the_username]
```

Users' key grants can be managed using the following tasks:

```
$ rails users:grants:list[the_username]
$ rails users:grants:add[the_username]
$ rails users:grants:revoke[the_username]
```

## Endpoints

The service currently offers two endpoints, listed below.

### GET /keys

`GET` requests to `/keys` will return a JSON-encoded list of pseudonymisation keys availble to the current user.

### POST /pseudonymise

`POST` requests to `/pseudonymise` will return JSON-encoded pseudonymised identifiers for supplied `"demographics"`.
In addition, `"variants"` and `"key_names"` can be supplied, but if they are omitted sensible default choices are made.

Commit message:

# Add 'credentials:unlock' task
Allows RAILS_MASTER_KEY to be entered directly into Rake process.

git-svn-id: https://deepthought/svn/non-era/pseudonymisation_service@21027 153ec483-9fa4-4787-9925-b21d4235b228

README.md, after:

# README

The `pseudonymisation_service` project is a Rails API-only application that allows demographics to be submitted, and pseudonymised versions to be returned.

## Usage

The easiest way to use the pseudonymisation service is through a `NdrPseudonymise::Client` object,
provided by the `ndr_pseudonymise` gem. This provides Ruby access to the two endpoints (described below, in "Endpoints").

## Basic Table Structure

Users can use pseudonymisation keys when a key grant has been given,
and any usage is then logged.

```
+------+      +----------+      +---------------------+
| User | ---> | KeyGrant | <--- | PseudonymisationKey |
+------+      +----------+      +---------------------+
     |                            |
     |        +----------+        |
     +------> | UsageLog | <------+
              +----------+
```

## Secrets Management

This project uses Rails' per-environment credentials API. Stored using are:
* pseudonymisation key secret salts
* per-environment demographic-logging encryption keys
* database credentials

For testing, the test environment credentials file and key file have been committed,
and can be viewed/updated using:

```
$ rails credentials:edit --environment test
```

To supply the unlock key to an ad-hoc production rake task, you can use the following:

```
$ RAILS_ENV=production rails credentials:unlock do:some:admin:task
```

## Authentication

Users are authenticated with tokens supplied in the request headers.
To set up a user, run:

```
$ rails users:create
```

A token can be (re)generated for a user using:

```
$ rails users:generate_token[the_username]
```

Users' key grants can be managed using the following tasks:

```
$ rails users:grants:list[the_username]
$ rails users:grants:add[the_username]
$ rails users:grants:revoke[the_username]
```

## Endpoints

The service currently offers two endpoints, listed below.

### GET /keys

`GET` requests to `/keys` will return a JSON-encoded list of pseudonymisation keys availble to the current user.

### POST /pseudonymise

`POST` requests to `/pseudonymise` will return JSON-encoded pseudonymised identifiers for supplied `"demographics"`.
In addition, `"variants"` and `"key_names"` can be supplied, but if they are omitted sensible default choices are made.
